.\" Copyright 2018, 2019 Scott Court
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), todeal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\" rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\" sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
.\" IN THE SOFTWARE.
.TH PORTSYNC 8 2019-01-09 "Cucumber Linux 2.0" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
portsync \- update the ports tree

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B portsync
[OPTION]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The portsync utility automates the process of updating the ports tree. Portsync
is capable of updating via git and rsync.
.PP
If no OPTION is specified, the portsync will update the ports tree using the
default update method specified in portsync.conf.

.PP
Options:
.TP
\fB-g\fR
Update the ports tree using git. This overrides the default update method.
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Displays a help message.
.TP
\fB-r\fR
Update the ports tree using rsync. This overrides the default update method.
.TP
\fB-v\fR
Enable verbose output.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.IP \fBROOT\fP
If set, portsync will treat the directory specified by
.BR ROOT
as the root filesystem instead of /.

.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/portsync.conf
.fi

.SH HISTORY
Portsync first appeared in Cucumber Linux 2.0.

.SH AUTHOR
Portsync was written by Scott Court (scott@cucumberlinux.com).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR portmake(8)
.BR portstrap(8)

