.\" Copyright 2018, 2019 Scott Court
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), todeal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\" rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\" sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
.\" FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
.\" IN THE SOFTWARE.
.TH PORTMAKE 8 2019-01-09 "Cucumber Linux 2.0" "Linux System Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
portmake \- build and install packages from source

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B portmake
ACTION
[PACKAGE]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The portmake utility uses a buildscript located in /usr/ports build and install
a package from source, and optionally allows for recursively building all of a
package's build time dependencies.
.PP
The package argument is optional. If it is not included, portmake will build
the package in the current directory. If it is included, portmake will build
that package instead of the one in the current directory. Note that omitting
this argument requires you to be in a package directory under the /usr/ports
hierarchy.

.PP
Most Useful Actions:
.TP
\fBinstall\fR
Install a package.
.TP
\fBupdate\fR
Update an individual package.
.TP
\fBupdate-all\fR
Update all the packages that have been installed from the ports tree.

.PP
All Supported Actions:
.TP
\fBbuild\fR
Build the package, downloading and verifying the source if necessary.
.TP
\fBbuild-only\fR
Build the package only; do not download the source, verify the source, build
dependencies or install the built package.
.TP
\fBbuild-recursive\fR
Build and install any build time dependencies. Then build the package,
recursively downloading and verifying source code as necessary.
.TP
\fBcheck-installed\fR
Checks if this package is already installed. Evaluates to true and exists with
status 0 if it is; otherwise it evaulates to false and exits with status 1.
.TP
\fBcheck-update\fR
Checks if this package needs to be updated. If any files in the package's
source directory have been modified since the package was last built, this
evaluates to true and exits with status 0.  Otherwise, it evaulates to false
and exists with status 1.
.TP
\fBdownload\fR
Download the source tarballs for a package and verify their integrity.
.TP
\fBdownload-only\fR
Download the source tarballs and stop; do not verify their integrity.
.TP
\fBdownload-recursive\fR
Download the source tarballs for a package and verify their integrity. Also
recursive download and verify the source tarballs for any dependencies of the
package.
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Display a help message.
.TP
\fBinstall\fR
Install the package by running build-recursive to build it, rebuilding the
package if it is already installed. Additionally install all of its
dependencies.
.TP
\fBinstall-new\fR
Install the package like the install option, but only if it is not already
installed.
.TP
\fBupdate\fR
Update the package if it is already installed and check-update evaluates to
true.
.TP
\fBupdate-all\fR
Update every package in the ports tree as though it had `portmake update` run
on it.
.TP
\fBverify-only\fR
Verify the integrity of the source tarballs and stop.

.SH EXIT VALUES
.IP \fB0\fP
Success
.IP \fB1\fP
Invalid arguments
.IP \fB2\fP
Failed to download source
.IP \fB3\fP
Failed to verify source
.IP \fB4\fP
Failed to build package
.IP \fB5\fP
Failed to install package
.IP \fB6\fP
Invalid configuration

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.IP \fBBUILD\fP
The value of this variable will be appended to the end of the build number
portion of each package built.

.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/portmake.conf
.fi

.SH HISTORY
Portmake first appeared in Cucumber Linux 2.0.

.SH AUTHOR
Portmake was written by Scott Court (scott@cucumberlinux.com).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR portsync(8)
.BR portstrap(8)

